---
title: NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks 2024
author: eshta-bhardwaj
last_modified_at: ""
tags: 
  - paper
excerpt: "Our paper, The State of Data Curation at NeurIPS: An Assessment of Dataset Development Practices in the Datasets and Benchmarks Track, has been accepted in 
the NeurIPS Datasets & Benchmarks track. See full post for the links to the paper and recorded talk."
---

Data curation is a field with origins in librarianship and archives, whose scholarship and thinking on data issues go back centuries, if not millennia. 
The field of machine learning is increasingly observing the importance of data curation to the advancement of both applications 
and fundamental understanding of machine learning models – evidenced not least by the creation of the Datasets and Benchmarks track itself. 
Our work provides an analysis of recent dataset development practices at NeurIPS through the lens of data curation. 
We present an evaluation framework for dataset documentation, consisting of a rubric and toolkit developed through a thorough 
literature review of data curation principles. We use the framework to systematically assess the strengths and weaknesses in 
current dataset development practices of 60 datasets published in the NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks track from 2021-2023. 
Our results indicate greater need for documentation about environmental footprint, ethical 
considerations, and data management. In this work, we suggest targeted strategies and resources to improve documentation in these areas and 
provide recommendations for the NeurIPS peer-review process that prioritize rigorous data curation in ML. 

It was accepted at The Thirty-Eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) Datasets & Benchmarks track as a spotlight poster. 
The paper can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22473) and the recorded talk 
is available on [YouTube](https://youtu.be/uLsfFjbERAI). 
